# Social Media Project Proposal
Introduction
You are working for MH Consultants as a specialist in Project Management. MH Consultants has been contacted by a private company (MC Accountants and Legal Advisers) which wants to use social media tools to foster collaboration between employees. The client believes social media may help the company to reach new levels of collaboration among employees, fostering sharing of information and knowledge.
The client has read about social media in different sources, but they do not have experience with social media in the organisational level. For this reason, MC Accountants and Legal Advisers have requested a project proposal from MH Consultants, to decide whether to go ahead with the project.
Your manager has briefed you about the relevance of presenting a project which is viable and delivers results in the short term to win the contract with the client. Your team is challenged to provide interesting solutions using social media despite the restrictions defined by the client.
MC Accountants and Legal Advisers
The company has been founded in 1992, growing quickly the last ten years. Currently the company has offices in the United Kingdom and an office in New York. However, the company has plans to expand to Asia and Middle East as many clients have business across the world, and not having specialists in these regions have limited the company’s capacity of expanding.
The company has 400 professionals who work with accountancy and legal advices. Currently the company has a legacy document management system. This system facilitates to find documents related to specific pieces of knowledge. However, the company faces difficulties to document corporative knowledge, to inform people on the relevance of particular contents, and to find information and knowledge which are not structured into the current document management system or which cannot be found because of different perspectives on how content is classified.
The company is facing financial challenges because of the economic downturn and may be forced to reduce the number of employees in the next months, if the economic situation does not improve. There is a concern in preparing the company for the loss of professionals who have relevant part of the corporative knowledge.
The company is also concerned about losing control of the conversations among professionals, and between professionals, clients and suppliers. Experts say social media bring transparency. There are fears this may create conflict. Experts also say social media foster more decentralised interactions, a governance structure which would be different from the current hierarchical organisational model, adopted by MC Accountants and Legal Advisers. Also, the company has a very traditional reward system, which takes into consideration the seniority of employees rather than the contribution in a specific period. There are doubts whether employees will be motivated to contribute to corporative social media spaces.
The company is not willing to invest in proprietary technology without testing the concept of social media using free tools. You are thus requested to design a solution using only free social media tools available for free on the Internet. Although this solution does not allow content integration, the client resists investing in tools without knowing how effective social media are to be. If the results of this first project are positive, the company may contract MH Consultants to develop the implementation of a proprietary solution if necessary. 
Main requirements 
MC Accountants and Legal Advisers has known through specialised magazines that many companies are using social media for improving sharing of information and knowledge. Although the company has a document management system, employees have difficulties to find content in this repository, as there are problems with its content classification system and taxonomies. The system is also inadequate as it does not allow tracking document changes and document versions. Employees waste time elaborating documents, as they write new content in Word and manage contributions and consensus through emails. It is always difficult to consolidate different contributions, and details are lost when different versions of same documents are circulated simultaneously. 
The search mechanism embedded in the repository system is not efficient to bring correct documents, and sometimes employees spend a lot of time to find the answer to a question which could be answered by a colleague quickly. However, the company also do not have a tool which clearly informs the expertise of each professional, thus it is not easy to find the expert, especially when urgent solutions are required. It is also known that the same work is done many times, for lack of communication and sharing. Presentations to clients, for instance, could be reused, as well as elaborated tables, graphs and images in general.
In addition, employees believe clients and suppliers have important contributions to give in the creation of knowledge repositories, but their experiences and advices are lost among many emails, not necessarily reaching the correct people and being documented properly. Indeed, the company expects that the adoption of social media tools is to improve the communication with clients and suppliers, to improve the quality of services and to foster a better use of insights received from outside the company.
Having this scenario into account, the MC Accountants and Legal Advisers has requested a project which guarantee that the social media platform will have the following features:
•	Permit employees to share information and knowledge.
•	Make easier the collective elaboration of documents.
•	Facilitate employees to find expertise within the company.
•	Improve the communication with clients and suppliers.
•	Foster better use of ideas brought by employees, clients and suppliers.
Project Proposal content and structure
Your team is expected to present a report to MC Accountants and Legal Advisers discussing the advantages, limitations and risks of the proposed project. Your team needs to provide a business proposal which motivates the client to sign up the contract with MH Consultants for final development of the project. 
In this document, you should present and discuss the following items:
1.	Introduction:
a.	Background: Explain the relevance of social media for private organisations and how the client may benefit from adopting a social media platform from a strategic perspective. Explain how the project is aligned with strategic objectives. You should ground your arguments on the literature. The strategy is not given; thus, you need also to summarize your understanding of the corporate strategy, given the information received. Remember: the strategy guides the choice of your solution.
b.	Requirements: Analyse the main project requirements, comparing when possible with challenges faced by other companies to deliver such requirements. If you see opportunity, add other suggestions of requirements which may be related to the client’s needs and have not been considered in this first document. 
2.	Social media platform: Discuss which tools are expected to be adopted in the new platform, their main functionalities and limitations. Critically presents how social media tools are to be combined for delivering results, thus fulfilling the requirements. You should construct a clear matrix linking requirements to tools. Define the limitations of your project (what the project cannot deliver, explaining why). Discuss the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and treats of your suggested platform (you should apply here SWOT analysis for the whole platform).
3.	Project Plan:
a.	Define the project: Scope, time, costs, resources and benefits. The scope should take into consideration the requirements, but your team needs to be careful in defining what you can deliver from the original requirements. Remember the project proposal is a contractual agreement between you and the client, and you are responsible for delivering the content you promise. Resources are mainly professional hours (of the project management team), as the adopted tools are free. The costs are to be estimated considering the number of hours each member of the group is supposed to work for delivering the project (do not include implementation and training). However, you need to include indirect costs in the budget (make assumptions on overheads). If you have other costs, add as well. The client needs to approve these costs, thus be realistic and competitive.
b.	Work Breakdown Structure and Gantt Chart: Design a WBS and a Gantt Chart considering the tasks and deliverables of the final project. You may use any tool to design the WBS and your Gantt Chart. Professional Project Management tools may be used, but this is not a requirement for this coursework. Include in your WBS the Responsibility Matrix, indicating the name of team members related to each task.
c.	Project Network: Using the WBS, design the complete Project Network for your project, allocating time and pointing out slacks (when possible). Show the critical path in the project network.
4.	Communication Plan: Explain how the team is going to communicate with the company, and how team members are going to communicate with each other during the elaboration of the project. Remember a Communication Plan is mainly about establishing a formal, routine communication protocol on specific topics.
You are expected to have finished this first draft of part 1 by 13th March 2022 (not for formal submission). If you do not do this part on time, you reduce your chances of success. This deadline is only for your own time management (for your to control your milestones).

Part 2: Social Media Project Report 
Introduction
MH Consultants has been contracted to deliver the social media project report to MC Accountants and Legal Advisers, based on the project proposal developed in the first part of your assignment. You have a few weeks to execute the final project. Taking into consideration your project proposal (1st part of your coursework), you should prepare the final project report, designing the social media platform. 
You should deliver a prototype of the solution you are proposing, properly using the interfaces, giving examples on how tools are expected to be used. In order to build these examples, either you may create proper accounts for the company in different social media channels (including examples of content which would be suitable for the channels), or you may draw upon the examples of other companies and groups using social media channels (use their content as examples). The important aspect here is to have the snapshots (images) with clear examples about how social media are to be adopted and used in combination to deliver requirements. You need to be specific about configuration of tools and social media policy, in order to be able to deliver the requirements. You are not expected to handle the platform working. You are just expected to show in your coursework images clearly pointing out how the tools should be used. Presentation counts a lot; thus, make clear your images and put additional information to clarify the use of the tools when necessary.
Final Project content and structure
Your team is expected to present a final project report to MC Accountants and Legal Advisers, based in your project proposal. Observe the snapshots of social media interfaces are images thus they do not affect the number of words.
In this document, you should present and discuss the following items, which are part of the report delivered to the client:
1.	Executive summary: Summarise your project report, including key aspects of the proposal and key recommendations. Use the format of Executive Summary (not of an introduction). Remember: this is not part of your project proposal, but part of your final report to the client.
2.	Social Media Platform: Presents the proposed social media platform (final project), showing how tools are to be appropriated, and how different tools are combined to fulfil the company’s requirements in terms of improving communication and collaboration among employees, clients and suppliers. Use tables to support the clarity of your report. Explain which tools the team took into consideration and which tools have been chosen, and the criteria for such a selection. Explain limitations and advantages of the final project in relation to the project proposal, focusing on scope, costs and risks. Shows examples of your arguments and suggestions through snapshots (images) of social media interfaces. In previous years, students have used snapshots, scenarios, story board, and use-case diagrams to support the presentation of their solution.  
3.	Organisational analysis: Discuss how the developed social media platform may impact in the organisational structure and culture. Critically analyse the organisational changes the suggested social media platform may foster, and how the organisation should prepare for those changes. Discuss organisational challenges and risks of adopting the suggested social media platform. Develop an organisational plan to cope with the critical aspects explored in the section. Define the scope of a social media policy and the relevance of the polity for the organisational change (the policy itself may go in the appendix).
4.	Risk analysis: Define risks related to the project implementation (to be done by the company, not by your team; remember: your contribution ends with this final report). Explore the potential risks of implementing the suggested social media platform, developing a Risk Breakdown Structure. You need to discuss risks related to change in communication patterns and collaborative structures, in addition to technical, financial, reputational risks. Also add details on risks on intellectual property rights and privacy. Develop a Risk Scale, a Risk Assessment Form, and a Risk Severity Matrix. In addition, develop a Risk Response Matrix to cope with the identifiable risks. Discuss the need of contingency funds to cope with related risks and suggest the rationale of calculating these funds. Aspects discussed in item 3 (organisational analysis) may be discussed as well in item 4 (risk analysis), when changes in the organisation structure are expected to bring risks to the project. 
5.	Project conclusions and recommendations: This section wraps up the whole social media project, summarising the main aspects of the proposed solution, and the main risks and challenges for the company to do the proper implementation. The section should also point out future developments for the social media platform adopted by the client.
Part 3: Project Evaluation 
In this part, the group should critically reflect on your group coursework as a project, analysing the challenges you have faced, explaining how the final project differs from your original plan, and how the lessons learnt are to help in future project management experiences. As important as having the domain of PM methods and techniques is the capacity of learning from experience. This part takes into consideration the capacity of self-evaluating one’s own work in this project management exercise. This part is directed to your Project Executive or Sponsor at MH Consultants (meanwhile the first other two parts are directed to the client/customer).
Project Report to Project Executive/Sponsor
Students are particularly asked to critically analyse two main aspects:
1.	Project Plan Analysis: Tracking the actual project execution, discuss how the final project has been different from the project plan in terms of scope, time, costs, resources and benefits. Present both the original project plan and the executed project, using properly the planned and the actual Work Breakdown Structures and Gantt Charts. Compare the changes in the budgets. Evaluating the reasons for differences and how lessons learnt are to improve future project management.
2.	Teamwork Evaluation: Critically analyse lessons learnt from working in the team. This is a group account, which reflects the collective experience, although individual accounts may inform the conclusion. Identify wrong assumptions, communication difficulties, differences in quality standards, differences in skills, difficulties in delegation of tasks, differences of managerial styles and leadership etc. In the appendix, if you prefer, add the individual account of each team member on the teamwork evaluation. Use check lists as recommended in the lectures
